Hello again, I'm super pumped for this
lecture because, in this conversation,
we are going to be adding
programmatically, adding text.
So, that when we hit Play,
that text is fade in from our script and
it is put within our game.
So, this is gonna be a fantastic
way adding dynamically,
programmatically, adding
text into our game.
So, let's jump in and get started.
Now, we want a script where we
can put our game logic that says,
what's the information,
what's the text that should be displayed
when the player is playing our game?
And when we create a script, all scripts
need to be attached to a game object.
They need to be a component
of a game object.
So what we'll do starting off here is jump
over into our hierarchy and right-click.
And as I've said before, you can go up
to Game Object and get the same menu.
I prefer to right click and Create Empty.
That means empty game object.
You can see here it is called Game Object.
At the moment there is nothing
in this game object except for
it's transform information.
This Transform here is a component.
We will be talking about
components a bit more in a moment.
The transform component has values on it.
It has values for position,
rotation and scale and
we worked through a little bit of
that in some previous lectures.
Let's rename our Game Object to Game.
Now, we could call it game logic or game
flow or game structure any of those names
would work, because we've only got this
one thing in this very simple game,
we'll just call it Game.
So we know where that game
information is going to be placed.
Now you can see on our game
object we have one component.
Let's talk a little bit more about that.
Now I've created a little analogy here
where I'm looking at a sound stereo
system, it's a home stereo system.
And we've got a couple of speakers and
a television.
What we're looking at here
are the equivalent of Game Objects.
So the TV is a game object and
its function is to display
the visual information.
So it's our visual display.
We've got our speakers, and
that's about audio output and
then we've got our stereo system
sitting on our shelf here.
Our shelf has some compartments and
on each compartments,
we have what we could consider components.
And the components could be a radio tuner,
a Blu-Ray player,
you might have Google Home you've set on
there, a DVD player, a record player,
maybe you're old school.
[LAUGH] Most people don't have
many of these things nowadays.
A radio tuner?
What's that?
A record player?
Who uses those?
But this is an example of all
the things you might have
on your home stereo system sitting
on your shelving unit here.
These are components
of your stereo system.
And if you dig in that a little deeper,
each component for example our Blu-Ray
player has properties, and properties
in unity can be one of two things.
It can be values or references, so
an example of the value might
be over on our amplifier.
We might have the volume currently set
to eight, for example, that's a value.
We might have a value that we're
playing on our DVD player,
we're playing track three,
that's the song we're playing.
And references are things that
like grabbing from somewhere else,
so what is the disc that we
put in our Blu-Ray player.
Maybe we're looking at
the latest Avengers movie and
we've put that into the Blu-Ray player,
that's a reference.
So the reference is the Blu-Ray player
disc that we put into our Blu-Ray player.
So this is saying that game objects
such as our stereo shelving unit here,
consists of components,
such as our Blu-Ray player.
And our components are made
up of properties and
the properties can be either values or
they can be references.
Let's have a look at that
back in unity to get some
context is what we are talkng about here.
So we have game,
we've kinda got one component, Transform,
and we've got values and positions.
And so every game object has a transform
because we need to know where in the world
it will be placed.
So everything starts with the transform,
and it's good practice to,
when we first create an empty game object,
is to reset the position back to zero.
We can do this a couple of ways.
We can type zero into the x, y,
z coordinates, and that will make it to
the zero position or we could right
click on Transform and click Reset, or
there's a little cog here
on the right and click Reset.
It's not gonna have the impact at
the moment because we're not trying to
visualize this particular game object.
We're gonna use it to run our code, but
it's just standard practice that
we reset our empty game object.
So, they're sitting at the zero,
zero, zero, so
we know to find if we do
need to find them, okay.
So that's the component and
then the values.
We're gonna add a new component.
We do that by clicking
the Add Component button.
And you can see all the various
components we have available to us here.
If you click on some of these,
here are some Physics 2D components.
Here are some Audio components
such as the Audio Listener.
Here are some Effects such
as a Particle System.
So it's a components though we
can put in our game object.
What we will do is scroll all the way
down and click on New Script.
We're gonna create a new script.
Another way to create a script
by adding a component is
if we type into the search bar up here,
the name of our script.
So we are going to name our script
in this instance AdventureGame,
capital A, capital G with no spaces.
That's the convention for a new class.
It starts with a capital and
has capital on any other words.
And no spaces, and
the click New Script, Create and Add.
You can see, after we do that,
down in our Assets directory,
we now have a new script, with
AdventureGame as the name of that script.
If you click on it,
you can see AdventureGame.cs,
down the bottom of your
Unity Engine down there.
AdventureGame.cs.
Now let's double click
on AdventureGame.cs,
to open up Visual Studio.
It might take a minute.
I'll expand mine a little bit so
you can see what's going on as we get
more content on our scripts,
I'll probably zoom out a little bit.
But for now, I'll zoom in so you can see
things nice and clear on your screen.
You can see we have public
class AdventureGame.
Now in our default script, the first thing
I want to do is to create a variable,
and I'm gonna make this
an instance variable,
or remember variable that's
available to our whole class here.
So underneath public class AdventureGame,
give ourselves a couple of lines.
On line seven, I will type Text
because it will be of type text, so
what type of variable is it?
It's not an int, it's not a float,
it's not a string, it's a text variable.
And the text variable, undo that,
the text variable will be called text, so
small T, all those variables start with a
small letter, and then any new words we do
a capital letter, so textComponent is
what we'll call this, and then semicolon.
And you can see that there's red
squiggly line underneath text,
the error we're getting is the type 09
namespace, name text could not be found.
What this means is text is a very
specific piece of information that is
specific keyword that Unity knows,
however it doesn't know
where we're getting it from and
we need to use a particular namespace.
So we need to tell Unity this is coming
from such and such a namespace so
up at the top here,
underneath using UnityEngine we'll type,
using UnityEngine.UI, semi-colon.
And that now says we will use
the UnityEngine User Interface namespace,
and all of the information that's
contain within there we now want to have
access to in our class.
And for now, don't worry about
exactly what is a namespace and
what is inside a namespace.
Just know that we need to use
a particular namespace in order to access
the aspects of that namespace.
For example, Text is a User Interface
keyword and we need to be using
UnityEngine.UI in order for us to have
access to this particular keyword here.
Okay, so now we have our variable of type
Text and it is called textComponent.
I'm gonna save that, I'm gonna add a new
thing here that we haven't seen before at
the start of our line.
And I'll give myself a space and
then go back to start so
that we can order a complete list.
If you open a square brackets,
and type in serialized,
serial, serialized field, and
then close square brackets.
And for those of you English,
Australians out there, Canadians,
you can see that we have zed.
So using the North American
way of spelling this.
Just a little bit of a gotcha that you
need to make sure that you have a zed or
a z and not an s.
So we have serialized field.
What does that mean?
Well, by putting this in
front of our variable.
And we can put serialized field
in front of any of our variables.
That means we now have this
available within our inspector so
that we can make changes in the inspector.
What do we mean by that?
Let's save our script back over
into Unity, click on Game,
this our game object we created.
And you can see we have our
AdventureGame script and
there now is a field down
here called textComponent.
So the variable we've just created,
textComponent,
is now sitting here as a reference.
It's saying,
what would you like textComponent to be?
This is where we can hook things
up visually and say well, we want
textComponent to be this particular
game object or this particular element.
There's two ways to assign
to this field in here.
One is to drag, we could go over into our
Canvas, which is over on our left in our
hierarchy, we could find the particular
thing we're interested in.
In this instance we're
interested in Story Text cuz we
want to dynamically update
all of our Story Text.
And we could drag that
over into the field,
that's what I tend to do usually but for
now, let's do it the more careful way
which is to click on the little selector
to the right of our textComponent here.
Click on that selector and
then select from our
appropriate game objects what
we would like to put in there.
And you can see it's only giving us
the two things that Unity knows are text
fields, that are text of type text, a
story text and tittle text, a typed text.
Because in our script we said it must
be of type text nothing else will do,
I will not let you put anything
else in this variable.
I wanna not let you assign a light or
a camera or an enemy that has to be text.
That's what it means when we do type.
So, we selected Story Text in here, so
we clicked on here, double click on
Story Text, when you all have Story Text
as our textComponent, very cool.
The next step,
back over into our script we need to do
something with this textComponent, and
in our start method we'll type this line
textComponent, and that's our variable.
We're accessing this variable, we're
saying it's about this particular variable
we've just created, dot, and
we'll type in here text.
Now what does that mean?
I'm just gonna put an equals here so it's
sitting in the next state ready to go.
textComponent.text, if we go
back to our component over here,
we can see this is saying,
textComponent is the Story Text.
Okay, let's go look at Story Text.
Story Text has its own components.
It has a Rect Transform, it has a Canvas
Renderer, and it has a Text component.
So here's our Text component.
There's even a little T
that sits next to it here.
Text component,
we've got all this placeholder nonsense
that we've put in here for now.
And now text component.
But this is of type text, and
then the field here is the text field.
So this is the text component and
this is the text field within the text.
So it's a little bit confusing,
cuz it's text than text, and
we're putting text into
text which is into text.
So a little bit confusing but it's super
important that we get these concepts now
when the words are the same so
that you can see that these
are actually different things.
So this is the text component, and
this is the text property or text field or
text values that we have within
our text component here.
So in our script, what we're saying is I
would like you to access textComponent,
and then within textComponent,
that's why we have the dot here,
it's saying underneath, or
within, or belonging to.
We're gonna talk about the dot
a lot throughout this course.
So for now, it's just a really gentle
introduction to this dot operator in here.
But we're saying the textComponent,
within the textComponent,
we are referring to, or
accessing the text property.
That's what we're saying
with this statement here.
And that needs to equal something,
well, what do we want it to equal?
We want it to equal whatever our game
should be saying at this point in time,
not placeholder story text,
text, text, text over and over.
We want it to say something, so for now
we're gonna put it just another piece of
placeholder, but it'll be placeholder
that we've driven through our code.
So this is the challenge that I have for
you,
is to add this text programmatically
from within our script.
Finish the statement by assigning
a string to our text reference.
So if you have a look at it, we need to
assign a string to this text reference
here, and if that makes sense to you
like yep,that's cool Rick good to go,
I now what to do there.
Or you wanna figure it out then
pause the video and jump in know.
I'll give you a hint if your
scratching your head, but
I want you to have a chance to jump in and
take that on right now.
So pause the video if your good to go.
Otherwise, here is your hint.
Your hint is, I'm a string.
This is how we write a string.
So that's your challenge,
assign a string and
save your script, hit play and
see what happens in your game.
And I'll be back here with my
solution in just a moment.
Right, so
this is a pretty simple one in terms of
it only requires us adding a tiny bit.
What we're doing is assigning
a string by having our open brackets,
and then our quotation marks, and
saying, I am added programmatically.
Or what have you wanted to say,
hello world, or this is Rick, or
the world is fantastic.
Whatever you want or
something that's more theme to your games.
So, Steampunk forever, ftw, okay.
So, I've added text component.txt equals,
I am added programmatically.
Save that back over into Unity, if I click
Play now, it takes a moment to load for
a loading our scripts understanding
what's going on, clicking play,
I'm added programatically so
we've added that from our script.
So this is the foundation for
our expand out to add out own text,
and a variety of text into our game window
here so it can update dynamically when we
push a button some other
piece of text gonna appear.
And when we make a decision
some other text can appear so
this is the foundation for it of having
our textComponent.text equals something.
We've added that into our game,
we've created our game object,
on our game object we
have a script component.
And in our script component we have our
story text as our text component, so
great work in this video.
You're doing really well, and
I will see you in the next lecture.